[ResponseOps][Stack Connectors] Opsgenie UI phase 2 (#143480)
elastic/kibana: docs/management/connectors/action-types/opsgenie.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[opsgenie-action-type]]
=== Opsgenie connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>Opsgenie</titleabbrev>
++++

> The Opsgenie connector uses the https://docs.opsgenie.com/docs/alert-api[Opsgenie Alert API].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Opsgenie connector uses the https://docs.opsgenie.com/docs/alert-api[Opsgenie alert API].
```

[float]
[[opsgenie-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

Opsgenie connectors have the following configuration properties.

> Name::      The name of the connector. The name is used to identify a  connector in the management UI connector listing, or in the connector list when configuring an action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Name:: The name of the connector. The name is used to identify a connector in the management UI connector listing, or in the connector list when configuring an action.
```

> URL::     The Opsgenie URL: https://api.opsgenie.com. For the EU instance of Opsgenie use: https://api.eu.opsgenie.com. If you are using the <<action-settings, `xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.

Reviewer: IMO since this URL is not something we control, we could just provide these as example URLs. Something like this:
```suggestion
URL:: The Opsgenie URL. For example, https://api.opsgenie.com or https://api.eu.opsgenie.com. If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
```

> API Key::   The Opsgenie API authentication key for HTTP Basic authentication. Refer to https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/create-a-default-api-integration/[How to generate an Opsgenie API key] for more information.

Reviewer: IMO we should make it clearer that they're leaving our documentation with this link:
```suggestion
API Key::   The Opsgenie API authentication key for HTTP Basic authentication. For more details about generating Opsgenie API keys, refer to https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/create-a-default-api-integration/[Opsgenie documentation].
```

[float]
[[opgenie-connector-networking-configuration]]
==== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

[float]
[[Preconfigured-opsgenie-configuration]]
==== Preconfigured connector type

[source,text]
--
 my-opsgenie:
   name: preconfigured-opsgenie-connector-type
   actionTypeId: .opsgenie
   config:
    apiUrl: https://api.opsgenie.com
   secrets:
     apiKey: apikey
--

Config defines information for the connector type.

`apiUrl`:: A string that corresponds to *URL*.

Secrets defines sensitive information for the connector type.

`apiKey`:: A string that corresponds to *API Key*.

[float]
[[define-opsgenie-ui]]

> ==== Define connector in Stack Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Define connector in {stack-manage-app}
```

Define Opsgenie connector properties.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/opsgenie-connector.png[Opsgenie connector]

Test Opsgenie action parameters.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/opsgenie-params-test.png[Opsgenie params test]

[float]
[[opsgenie-action-configuration]]
==== Action configuration

The Opsgenie connector supports two types of actions: Creating and Closing alerts. The properties supported for each action are different because Opsgenie defines different properties for each operation.

When testing the Opsgenie connector, choose the appropriate action from the selector. Switching the action will show a different form allowing the specific properties for that type of action to be configured.

> Action::    Whether to create or close an alert within Opsgenie. When using the Opsgenie connector for a rule action, the Action selector is hidden and automatically set to the appropriate value. If the action is run when a rule fires, it will create an alert within Opsgenie. If the action is run when a rule recovers, it will close an alert within Opsgenie.

Reviewer 2: Hm, am I understanding correctly that an alert automatically closes when the rule that created it no longer detects the conditions that it (the rule) monitors for? If my understanding is right, does the following work?

```suggestion
Action::    Whether to create or close an alert within Opsgenie. The Action field is automatically set while you configure the connector for a rule. If the rule's parameters are met, an alert is created within Opsgenie. The alert is automatically closed once the rule no longer detects the conditions that generated the alert.
```

@lcawl separate question: do we need to create a shared attribute for Opsgenie?

> Action::    Whether to create or close an alert within Opsgenie. When using the Opsgenie connector for a rule action, the Action selector is hidden and automatically set to the appropriate value. If the action is run when a rule fires, it will create an alert within Opsgenie. If the action is run when a rule recovers, it will close an alert within Opsgenie.

Reviewer: Since "Opsgenie" is a single term with no confusing capitalization etc, IMO we don't need a shared attribute. If there's a common acronym people use for this product or the product name might change imminently, then that would be a good reason.

> Action::    Whether to create or close an alert within Opsgenie. When using the Opsgenie connector for a rule action, the Action selector is hidden and automatically set to the appropriate value. If the action is run when a rule fires, it will create an alert within Opsgenie. If the action is run when a rule recovers, it will close an alert within Opsgenie.

Reviewer: Here's an alternative version of the text to help simplify the terminology (and align with the way we describe recovery actions in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/create-and-manage-rules.html):
```suggestion
Action:: Select *Create Alert* to configure the actions that occur when a rule's conditions are met. Select *Close Alert* to define the recovery actions that occur when the rule conditions are no longer met.
```

[float]
[[opsgenie-action-create-alert-configuration]]

> ===== Create alert configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===== Configure the create alert action
```

Reviewer 2: I think this title is more descriptive of what the following content describes. Feel free to tweak it further or ignore it all together if it's not.

> You can configure the create alert action through the form view or using a JSON editor.

Reviewer: Though I know this page is following the example of the example connector pages, IMO rather than listing each field and meaning here, it's more important to (1) have the appropriate API documentation up-to-date with these properties and descriptions, and (2) have tooltips in the UI for any fields that aren't obvious (e.g. "alias", "entity", "source"). If you want me to add those tooltips in this PR, @jonathan-buttner let me know. Otherwise, I'll create a follow-up PR.

Author: Great point @lcawl . Let's do a follow up PR to address that. I'll add these fields in the docs here and we can remove them once we have the tooltips.

> The create alert action can be configured using the form or a JSON editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure the create alert action through the form view or using a JSON editor.
```

[float]
[[opsgenie-action-create-alert-form-configuration]]

> ====== Form configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
====== Form view
```

The create alert action form has the following configuration properties.

Message::   The message for the alert. This field is required.

> Opsgenie Tags::   The tags for the alert.

Reviewer 2: Is this, and all of the other fields after this mandatory fields as well? If they're optional, we normally add that info in parentheses after the description, for example:

```suggestion
Opsgenie Tags::   The tags for the alert (optional).
```

Priority::  The priority level for the alert.

> Description::   The description for the alert to provide detailed information about the alert.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description::   A description that provides detailed information about the alert.
```

> Alias::   The identifier for the alert. The `Alias` is used for https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/what-is-alert-de-duplication/[alert de-duplication].

Reviewer: This is another case where I think we should be clearer we're sending them outside our docs:
```suggestion
Alias::   The alert identifier, which is used for alert de-duplication in Opsgenie. For more information, refer to the https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/what-is-alert-de-duplication/[Opsgenie documentation].
```

Entity::  The domain of the alert.
Source::  The source of the alert.
User::    The display name of the owner.

> Note::    Additional information for the alert.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note::    Additional information about the alert.
```

Reviewer 2: The main difference here is whether the user is entering additional information that the alert doesn't have, or if they're providing details gathered from the alert to provide more context. If it's the former, ignore this edit.

Author: Yeah I think it's the former. The user is creating an alert within opsgenie so they're providing additional information to create the alert.

[float]
[[opsgenie-action-create-alert-json-configuration]]
====== JSON editor

> A JSON editor is provided as an alternative to the form view. The editor also supports additional fields not shown in the form. The editor view supports all of the forms configuration properties but as lowercase keys as https://docs.opsgenie.com/docs/alert-api#create-alert[described in the Opsgenie API documentation]. The editor view supports the following additional properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A JSON editor is provided as an alternative to the form view and supports additional fields not shown in the form view. The JSON editor supports all of the forms configuration properties but as lowercase keys as https://docs.opsgenie.com/docs/alert-api#create-alert[described in the Opsgenie API documentation]. The JSON editor supports the following additional properties:
```

  "description":"Every alert needs a description",
  "responders":[
      {"id":"4513b7ea-3b91-438f-b7e4-e3e54af9147c", "type":"team"},
      {"name":"NOC", "type":"team"},
      {"id":"bb4d9938-c3c2-455d-aaab-727aa701c0d8", "type":"user"},
      {"username":"trinity@opsgenie.com", "type":"user"},
      {"id":"aee8a0de-c80f-4515-a232-501c0bc9d715", "type":"escalation"},
      {"name":"Nightwatch Escalation", "type":"escalation"},
      {"id":"80564037-1984-4f38-b98e-8a1f662df552", "type":"schedule"},
      {"name":"First Responders Schedule", "type":"schedule"}
  ],
  "visibleTo":[
      {"id":"4513b7ea-3b91-438f-b7e4-e3e54af9147c","type":"team"},
      {"name":"rocket_team","type":"team"},
      {"id":"bb4d9938-c3c2-455d-aaab-727aa701c0d8","type":"user"},
      {"username":"trinity@opsgenie.com","type":"user"}
  ],
  "actions": ["Restart", "AnExampleAction"],
  "tags": ["OverwriteQuietHours","Critical"],
  "details":{"key1":"value1","key2":"value2"},
  "entity":"An example entity",
  "priority":"P1"
}
--

[float]
[[opsgenie-action-close-alert-configuration]]
===== Close alert configuration

The close alert action has the following configuration properties.

> Alias::   The identifier for the alert. The `Alias` is used for https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/what-is-alert-de-duplication/[alert de-duplication]. The alias must match the value used when creating the alert.

Reviewer: Per previous suggestion, making same change here:
```suggestion
Alias::   The alert identifier, which is used for alert de-duplication in Opsgenie. The alias must match the value used when creating the alert. For more information, refer to the https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/what-is-alert-de-duplication/[Opsgenie documentation].
```

> Note::    Additional information for the alert.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note::    Additional information about the alert.
```

Author: Thanks, keeping it `for` like above.

Source::  The display name of the source.
User::    The display name of the owner.

[float]
[[configuring-opsgenie]]
==== Configure an Opsgenie account

> Opsgenie offers https://www.atlassian.com/software/opsgenie/try[free trial instances], which you can use to test creating and closing alerts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Opsgenie offers https://www.atlassian.com/software/opsgenie/try[free trial instances] that you can use to test alert actions.
```

> After obtaining an Opsgenie instance, https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/create-a-default-api-integration/[configure the API integration].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating an Opsgenie instance, https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/create-a-default-api-integration/[configure the API integration].
```

Reviewer: Per my other suggestions, I think it's a good idea to make it clear we're sending them outside our docs here too. For example:
```suggestion
After obtaining an Opsgenie instance, configure the API integration. For details, refer to the https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/create-a-default-api-integration/[Opsgenie documentation].
```

> If a free trial is being used, navigate to the `Teams` dashboard and select the appropriate team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using a free trial, go to the `Teams` dashboard and select the appropriate team.
```

image::management/connectors/images/opsgenie-teams.png[Opsgenie teams dashboard]

> Select the `Integrations` menu item and select `Add integration`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the `Integrations` menu item, then select `Add integration`.
```

image::management/connectors/images/opsgenie-integrations.png[Opsgenie teams integrations]

Search for `API` and select the `API` integration.

image::management/connectors/images/opsgenie-add-api-integration.png[Opsgenie API integration]

> Configuration the integration as needed and make note of the `API Key`. This key should be used to populate the `API Key` field when creating the Kibana Opsgenie connector. Click `Save Integration`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the integration and ensure you record the `API Key`. This key will be used to populate the `API Key` field when creating the Kibana Opsgenie connector. Click `Save Integration` after you finish configuring the integration.
```
